hi my name is Brian Wilkinson president
of matrix energy systems out of montreal
and i'm here today to speak to you about
matrix air matrix air is a solar air
heating system designed for commercial
industrial fresh air heating
applications the concept behind the
matrix our system is quite simple we use
the outside of a building's facade to
create heat as the sunlight hits the
exterior of the sad you get about a
thousand watts per square meter striking
the exterior surface we convert about
seventy percent of that or 700 watts of
square meter into heat that heat is then
being drawn into the building through an
air intake usually located in the bottom
half of the wall which is then drawn
into the building when the unique
features of the system is its simplicity
almost all buildings have an exterior
cladding of some kind in this particular
case we're using a metal facade the
trick with ours is it uses tiny tiny
perforations we perforate about 2% of
the surface area through which air is
passing what were able to do then is
we're able to increase the temperature
of that air to about 70 to 75 degrees
over the ambient outside temperature
that is to say if you have air that's
now 50 degrees 40 degrees Fahrenheit
outside we can bring that air now in to
about 110 120 degrees Fahrenheit for
space heating applications obviously the
key benefit to the system is its ability
to reduce a space heating costs for any
non-residential building while there is
considerable talk about the use of
photovoltaics and solar water heating
this is one of the best applications of
solar technology offering one of the
lowest return or one of the highest
returns on investments or lowest initial
cost typically with a payback on a new
building of well under one year often in
some cases depending upon the tax
grantor attacks
credit in place it can be almost
immediate one of the other unique
features of the other system is its
ability to filter air due to the small
perforations that are in the colliding
airborne particulate is actually not
permitted to go through the cladding as
air passes from the outside the desk
collects on the outside of the cladding
and the occasional rain storm has a
tendency of rinsing the wall so not only
does the building owner benefit by
having reduced energy costs but the
occupants of the building have a benefit
of increased fresh air as well as
filtered fresh air that's going into the
building we also have the similar
product which is a transpired collector
which can be roof mounted while this
particular product is designed to be
mounted on a South facade or slightly
east or west of true self not all
buildings are configured for that in
some cases a building maybe the South
facade could be covered with glass it
could be the front entrance or it could
be a brand new building wall in which
case the owner is not a position to to
wreak lad the building in those cases
what we do is we take the exact same
cladding and we put it up on the roof in
a triangular system which is a modular
system which can then preheat the make
our air units that are feeding the
building directly while not in use in
the heating season the same system can
be used to provide heated thermal
storage either into Rock bed or a
radiant floor or some other heat storage
means could be giant water tanks another
application of course would be with use
of air to water heat exchangers where
the heat that is delivered through the
collector during the summer months can
be used for heating of water for
domestic use or for process use in the
case of
any laundry systems for example where
large quantities of low temperature
water low hot water temperature may be
required other applications include crop
drawing any drawing application for
produce be it corn tobacco in hot
climates we use it for drawing tea for
example drawing nuts in California in
those particular cases what we can do is
we can modulate the amount of air that
is going through each square foot of the
collector by doing so we raise or lower
the temperature we're still always
getting the 700 watts per square meter
of energy however we are alternating the
difference between the flow rate and the
temperature rise of the air as a result
we can vary the the temperature and the
air volume according to the drying
process of the produce that is that is
being dried so in summary the matrix air
solar air heating system has a number of
benefits it provides energy savings due
to its solar gain typically about thirty
percent of a building's space heating
for ventilation air can be reduced as a
result of the use of the system it
provides air filtration it reduces the
any heat losses that are from the
building itself are recuperated and
returned to the building as well I can
be used in virtually any industrial
commercial application